---
title: Speaker – Dato Ts Dr Haji Amirudin Abdul Wahab FASc
permalink: /speakers/dato-ts-dr-haji-amirudin-abdul-wahab-fasc/
description: ""
---

#### **Dato’ Ts. Dr. Haji Amirudin Abdul Wahab FASc**

*Chief Executive Officer (CEO) <br>
CyberSecurity Malaysia*


##### **Biography**
Dato’ Ts. Dr. Haji Amirudin Abdul Wahab FASc (“Dato’ Dr. Amir”) is currently the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of CyberSecurity Malaysia, the agency that monitors e-sovereignty of the country. He has approximately 30 years of ICT working experience in the telecom and IT sector in the Government as well as in the semi-government and private sectors.
 
During Dato’ Ts. Dr. Amir’s leadership as CEO, CyberSecurity Malaysia (CSM) managed to contribute to Malaysia’s achievement in attaining top 10 rankings in the world, at International Telecom Union (ITU) Global Cyber Security Index studies and became first Malaysian to chair World Trustmark Alliance (2014-2015). Besides that, during his leadership, CSM was awarded as Best Cyber Security Innovation Award 2015 recipient by FireEye Global and won Champion Prizes at the World Summit of the Information Society (WSIS) for 2 consecutive years (2016 &amp; 2017) and also most recently in the year 2020 as a winner of WSIS Prizes 2020 Category 5 at World Summit of the Information Society (WSIS) 2020: “Building Confidence and Security in the use of ICTs. He was also selected to receive an ASEAN Award as the Outstanding Chief Information/Security Officer in conjunction with the 10th ASEAN CIO| CSO Summit and Awards 2014 held in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam on 2 December 2014. On 2 May 2018, he has been registered in Malaysia Board of Technologist as Professional Technologist who has allowed him to use abbreviation “Ts” before his name.

During his leadership, Dato’ Ts. Dr. Amir also spearheaded various national and international Cybersecurity platforms such as serving as the cybersecurity co-chair in the Cybersecurity working Group for Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific (CSCAP) since 2015, as Permanent Secretariat to the Organisation of Islamic Conference Computer Emergency Response Team (OIC- CERT) since 2013, Deputy Chair to Asia Pacific Computer Emergency Response Team (AP-CERT) for 2015 -2019 and current chair to AP-CERT since 2019 till now. Dato’ Ts. Dr. Amir is a Canadian-based POLCYB (The Society of The Policing of Cyberspace) Non-Executive Board of Directors for the year 2015 to 2018. He used to serve as an OIC Task Force Member on ICT and Cyber Security and currently a Fellow at Malaysian Institute of Management (MIM) and Fellow of Academy Science Malaysia. He was also appointed as Vice-Chair of OIC Science and Technology Committee and Executive Committee Member of Annual Coordination Meeting of OIC Institutions (ACMOI) during the Thematic Committee on Science, Technology and Information Technology meeting which was held in conjunction with Inaugural Annual Coordination Meeting of OIC Institutions on 7 December 2015 at Jeddah, Arab Saudi. He was also ratified by APEC ECSG on 27 February 2016 as an Expert Members for the 2nd APEC E-Commerce Business Alliance (ECBA) Expert Council (2016-2018) in which he was one of its Deputy Chairman. Dato’ Ts. Dr. Amir was also appointed as Advisory Board Member of The Economist Intelligence Unit on Asia Smart City Program 2016.
 
Nationally, Dato’ Ts. Dr. Amirudin is currently the Chairman of National ICT Standard Committee (ISCG) from March 2010 till current. He is also a Chairman of Board of Governance Global Accredited Cyber Security Education or Global ACE Scheme for Malaysia Chapter since 2018 and past Head of Secretariat to the National IT Council NITC chaired by YAB PM from 2010-2012. He is currently a Board Member of Technology Park Malaysia (TPM) IT Sdn Bhd since 2016 and used to sit as a Board Member to Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation (MDeC) and MyNIC Berhad during 2011-2012 period, in addition to as Computer Industry Association of Malaysia (PIKOM) Council or Board Member from 2014-2015. Most recently, he has been appointed as AKPK Board of Director and Member of AKPK Audit Committee for 2020 to 2022 session.
 
Dato’ Ts. Dr. Amir holds a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) from the School of Information Technology &amp; Electrical Engineering (ITEE), University of Queensland, Australia. Dato’ Ts. Dr Amir also holds two Master degrees, a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) from the University of Dubuque, Iowa, USA, a Masters in Information Technology from National University of Malaysia (UKM) and a Bachelor of Science Engineering in Electrical Engineering from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.
 
Academically, Dato’ Ts Dr. Amir is an Adjunct Professor at the International Islamic University of Malaysia (UIAM), Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM), Universiti Teknologi Petronas (UTP) and Universiti Utara Malaysia (UUM) and was one at Universiti Tenaga Nasional (UNITEN) Malaysia. Currently, he also serves as a Board of Studies Member of the Universiti Teknologi Petronas (UTP), University Malaya (UM), Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM) and Universiti Putra Malaysia (UPM).
 
A calculated risk-taker with deep technical industry knowledge, Dato’ Ts. Dr. Haji Amirudin had built a strong reputation for developing effective and unique strategies and incubating new models and designs. He maintains a well-deserved national and international reputation in his field where he had been invited as keynote speakers and panellist in various local and international conferences and regularly featured in the various local TV, Radio, newspapers, magazines and online media. He was conferred the Dato' Paduka Mahkota Perak (D.P.M.P) by His Royal Highness the Sultan of Perak, Sultan Nazrin Muizzuddin Shah, who brought him the title Dato' on 5 November 2016.
